{
    "institution": "University of Illinois, Illinois Natural History Survey",
    "collection": "Annelida",
    "recordsets": "",
    "recordsetQuery": "",
    "institution_code": "INHS",
    "collection_code": "",
    "collection_uuid": "urn:uuid:7d92b1f9-3053-4564-a5d0-88b08f4b3049",
    "collection_lsid": "",
    "collection_url": "http://wwx.inhs.illinois.edu/collections/annelid",
    "collection_catalog_url": "",
    "description": "The INHS Annelida Collection is perhaps the largest state collection of freshwater oligochaetes in the country, holding 350,000 specimens (over 7,000 lots, or collections). Approximately 225,000 specimens are permanently mounted on microscope slides; the remaining specimens are stored in alcohol in vials and jars. With the exception of one monospecific order - Acanthobdellida (the bristle worms, restricted in distribution to the boreal regions in the Arctic) - the collection includes representatives of the other groups of worms in the phylum Annelida: Branchiobdellida (one family, Branchiobdellidae - the crayfish worms, including representatives of the subfamilies Bdellodrilinae, Cambarincolinae, and Xironodrilinae); Hirudinida (the leeches, including representatives in five families – Haemopidae, Hirudinidae, Erpobdellidae, Glossiphoniidae, and Piscicolidae); the Oligochaetous Clitellata {'Oligochaeta'}, with representatives of the aquatic microdrile worms (families Enchytraeidae, Haplotaxidae, Lumbriculidae, Naididae {now including the subfamilies in the former family Tubificidae}, and Opistocystidae), and the terrestrial megadrile oligochaetes – earthworms (families Acanthodrilidae, Glossoscolecidae, Komarekionidae, Lumbricidae, Megascolecidae, and Sparganophilidae); and Polychaeta (sand worms, tube worms, or clam worms – primarily marine) including a few representatives of the families Capitellidae and Sabellidae, and Aeolosomatida (one family, Aeolosomatidae – the head-crawling, or suction-feeding worms). Acquisition Highlights. An important acquisition for the INHS Annelida Collection in 1986 was the Walter J. Harman collection of terrestrial oligochaetes. The material in this collection, comprising 1,600 earthworm specimens representing 22 species, 10 genera, and 3 families, was collected by Dr. Harman from 230 sites in central Illinois during his 1956-1958 survey for his doctoral work at the University of Illinois. The information in Harman's thesis, previously unpublished records in Harman's original field notes, and records of other terrestrial oligochaetes collected over the years in Illinois and deposited in the INHS Annelida Collection were recently presented in a publication by Reynolds and Wetzel (2011): Megadrilogica 18 (4): 35-67. The INHS Annelida Collection contains primary types of six leech and one aquatic oligochaete species. The geographic scope of the INHS Annelida Collection is as follows: 76% from Illinois, 23% from elsewhere in North America (collections from the states of Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida (including the Conch Republic), Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. Virgin Islands (St. John Island), and from the Canadian provinces of Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba, Nunavut, Ontario, and Prince Edward Island), and 1% from other countries, including Australia, the Bahamas, Colombia, Ecuador, Germany, Greenland, India, Jamaica, Lesser Antilles (Antigua, Barbados, Jamaica, Granada, Nexis, St. Lucia), The Netherlands, Panama, Peru, Puerto Rico, Sweden, and Venezuela.",
    "descriptionForSpecialists": "",
    "cataloguedSpecimens": 350000,
    "knownToContainTypes": null,
    "taxonCoverage": "The INHS Annelida Collection is perhaps the largest state collection of freshwater oligochaetes in the country, holding 350,000 specimens (over 7,000 lots, or collections). Approximately 225,000 specimens are permanently mounted on microscope slides; the remaining specimens are stored in alcohol in vials and jars. With the exception of one monospecific order - Acanthobdellida (the bristle worms, restricted in distribution to the boreal regions in the Arctic) - the collection includes representatives of the other groups of worms in the phylum Annelida: Branchiobdellida (one family, Branchiobdellidae - the crayfish worms, including representatives of the subfamilies Bdellodrilinae, Cambarincolinae, and Xironodrilinae); Hirudinida (the leeches, including representatives in five families – Haemopidae, Hirudinidae, Erpobdellidae, Glossiphoniidae, and Piscicolidae); the Oligochaetous Clitellata {'Oligochaeta'}, with representatives of the aquatic microdrile worms (families Enchytraeidae, Haplotaxidae, Lumbriculidae, Naididae {now including the subfamilies in the former family Tubificidae}, and Opistocystidae), and the terrestrial megadrile oligochaetes – earthworms (families Acanthodrilidae, Glossoscolecidae, Komarekionidae, Lumbricidae, Megascolecidae, and Sparganophilidae); and Polychaeta (sand worms, tube worms, or clam worms – primarily marine) including a few representatives of the families Capitellidae and Sabellidae, and Aeolosomatida (one family, Aeolosomatidae – the head-crawling, or suction-feeding worms). Acquisition Highlights. An important acquisition for the INHS Annelida Collection in 1986 was the Walter J. Harman collection of terrestrial oligochaetes. The material in this collection, comprising 1,600 earthworm specimens representing 22 species, 10 genera, and 3 families, was collected by Dr. Harman from 230 sites in central Illinois during his 1956-1958 survey for his doctoral work at the University of Illinois. The information in Harman's thesis, previously unpublished records in Harman's original field notes, and records of other terrestrial oligochaetes collected over the years in Illinois and deposited in the INHS Annelida Collection were recently presented in a publication by Reynolds and Wetzel (2011): Megadrilogica 18 (4): 35-67. The INHS Annelida Collection contains primary types of six leech and one aquatic oligochaete species.",
    "geographic_range": "The geographic scope of the INHS Annelida Collection is as follows: 76% from Illinois, 23% from elsewhere in North America (collections from the states of Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida (including the Conch Republic), Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. Virgin Islands (St. John Island), and from the Canadian provinces of Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba, Nunavut, Ontario, and Prince Edward Island), and 1% from other countries, including Australia, the Bahamas, Colombia, Ecuador, Germany, Greenland, India, Jamaica, Lesser Antilles (Antigua, Barbados, Jamaica, Granada, Nexis, St. Lucia), The Netherlands, Panama, Peru, Puerto Rico, Sweden, and Venezuela.",
    "collectionExtent": "350000",
    "contact": "Mark J. Wetzel",
    "contact_role": "Curator",
    "contact_email": "mjwetzel@illinois.edu",
    "mailing_address": "1816 South Oak Street, MC 652",
    "mailing_city": "Champaign",
    "mailing_state": "Illinois",
    "mailing_zip": "61820",
    "physical_address": "607 East Peabody Drive",
    "physical_city": "Champaign",
    "physical_state": "Illinois",
    "physical_zip": "61820",
    "UniqueNameUUID": "urn:uuid:d0689818-af23-4395-8251-82df8f68b028",
    "attributionLogoURL": "",
    "providerManagedID": "",
    "derivedFrom": "",
    "sameAs": "",
    "flags": "",
    "portalDisplay": "",
    "lat": 40.1015,
    "lon": -88.2344
  }